README.md, before:

# mars-app-CI-CD-SEIP

* This repo was made for educational purposes.

This repo will perform the tasks of the first Labatory homework for the university subject - Software Engineering In Practice- at AUEB. The task's description is:  

Deploy the first-ever Martian CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) Application. Your task is to set up a fully automated CI/CD pipeline that ensures our Mission Control CRUD System (a simple CRUD app) is always built, tested, and packaged properly.

However, the mission has strict compliance, reliability, and automation requirements! You must ensure:

1. Code is always tested before packaging
2. Builds are automated and optimized 

and the core tasks are:

## **🛠️ Mission Tasks (as mentioned by the educational assignment)**

### 🚦 **Phase 1: Mission Repository Initialization**
1. **Create a Git repository** for your project (GitHub).
2. Create and add a simple **CRUD application** that manages space station resource stock (e.g., product name, id, quantity ) using a relational or NoSQL database (preferably in-memory) and exposes the required REST endpoints.
   - Supported stacks: Flask/Django, Node.js (Express), Java (Spring Boot), DBs: SQLite, H2, MongoDB etc.
3. Ensure the application runs locally and document the setup in a `README.md`.
4. Push the code to your repository.

---

### 🚀 **Phase 2: CI - Mission Safety Checks**
**Goal:** Ensure the mission code is always tested and reviewed before proceeding to the next phase.

1. **Choose a CI/CD tool** (GitHub Actions).
2. **Implement automated checks**:
   - **Code Quality Check** using ESLint/PyLint/Checkstyle.
   - **Unit Tests** with Jest, PyTest, or JUnit.
3. **Configure branch protection rules**:  
   - Only merge changes into the `main` branch after passing checks.

**Mission Success Criteria:**  
Every code commit triggers a **CI pipeline** that performs tests and quality checks.

---

### 🚢 **Phase 3: Build Automation - The Martian Compiler**
**Goal:** Automate the application build process to ensure a deployable artifact.

1. **Use a build automation tool**:
   - **Java** → Use **Maven/Gradle** to generate a `.jar` file.
   - **Python** → Use `setup.py` and package the app.
   - **Node.js** → Use `webpack` or `npm build`.
2. **Dockerize the application**:
   - Write a `Dockerfile` to package the app.
   - Build the Docker image and store it in **Docker Hub** (ensure the confidentiality of your docker credentials by storing them as GitHub secrets).

**Mission Success Criteria:**  
The CI pipeline automatically builds and stores a deployable artifact.



## 🎯 **Bonus Challenge: Intergalactic Infrastructure as Code (IaC) + Simple UI**
**(Optional, for extra credit!)**  
- Use **Docker Compose** to **automate local environment setup**.
- **Create a very simple UI** (JavaScript-based, using React, Vue, or plain HTML/CSS/JS) to interact with the CRUD application.
- **Docker Compose the frontend with the backend (CRUD App)**, ensuring they run together seamlessly.

### **🛠️ Mission Tasks' Documentation**

## Mission 1

Here’s a brief setup guide for developers cloning your repository, mars-app-CI-CD-SEIP:

* Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/DimiChatzipavlis/mars-app-CI-CD-SEIP.git

* Navigate to the project directory:
cd mars-app-CI-CD-SEIP

* Install dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

* Create the database:
python create_database.py

* Run the application:
python app.py

* Access the API:
Visit http://127.0.0.1:5000/resources in a browser or API tool.


Note: Ensure Python 3.x is installed on your system.

## Mission 2

We make a CI/CD tool with Github Actions. We write the main.yml file, update the requirements.txt file with pytest and configure branch protection rules. For the code quality check we use pylint.


## Special Thanks
The whole labatory's theory and assignment was carefully made by (**GitHub Username: `tasosger`**), (**GitHub Username: `Cristian-Scobioala`**).

Commit message:

Making small changes in the mission 3 files

README.md, after:

# mars-app-CI-CD-SEIP

* This repo was made for educational purposes.

This repo will perform the tasks of the first Labatory homework for the university subject - Software Engineering In Practice- at AUEB. The task's description is:  

Deploy the first-ever Martian CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) Application. Your task is to set up a fully automated CI/CD pipeline that ensures our Mission Control CRUD System (a simple CRUD app) is always built, tested, and packaged properly.

However, the mission has strict compliance, reliability, and automation requirements! You must ensure:

1. Code is always tested before packaging
2. Builds are automated and optimized 

and the core tasks are:

## **🛠️ Mission Tasks (as mentioned by the educational assignment)**

### 🚦 **Phase 1: Mission Repository Initialization**
1. **Create a Git repository** for your project (GitHub).
2. Create and add a simple **CRUD application** that manages space station resource stock (e.g., product name, id, quantity ) using a relational or NoSQL database (preferably in-memory) and exposes the required REST endpoints.
   - Supported stacks: Flask/Django, Node.js (Express), Java (Spring Boot), DBs: SQLite, H2, MongoDB etc.
3. Ensure the application runs locally and document the setup in a `README.md`.
4. Push the code to your repository.

---

### 🚀 **Phase 2: CI - Mission Safety Checks**
**Goal:** Ensure the mission code is always tested and reviewed before proceeding to the next phase.

1. **Choose a CI/CD tool** (GitHub Actions).
2. **Implement automated checks**:
   - **Code Quality Check** using ESLint/PyLint/Checkstyle.
   - **Unit Tests** with Jest, PyTest, or JUnit.
3. **Configure branch protection rules**:  
   - Only merge changes into the `main` branch after passing checks.

**Mission Success Criteria:**  
Every code commit triggers a **CI pipeline** that performs tests and quality checks.

---

### 🚢 **Phase 3: Build Automation - The Martian Compiler**
**Goal:** Automate the application build process to ensure a deployable artifact.

1. **Use a build automation tool**:
   - **Java** → Use **Maven/Gradle** to generate a `.jar` file.
   - **Python** → Use `setup.py` and package the app.
   - **Node.js** → Use `webpack` or `npm build`.
2. **Dockerize the application**:
   - Write a `Dockerfile` to package the app.
   - Build the Docker image and store it in **Docker Hub** (ensure the confidentiality of your docker credentials by storing them as GitHub secrets).

**Mission Success Criteria:**  
The CI pipeline automatically builds and stores a deployable artifact.



## 🎯 **Bonus Challenge: Intergalactic Infrastructure as Code (IaC) + Simple UI**
**(Optional, for extra credit!)**  
- Use **Docker Compose** to **automate local environment setup**.
- **Create a very simple UI** (JavaScript-based, using React, Vue, or plain HTML/CSS/JS) to interact with the CRUD application.
- **Docker Compose the frontend with the backend (CRUD App)**, ensuring they run together seamlessly.

### **🛠️ Mission Tasks' Documentation**

## Mission 1

Here’s a brief setup guide for developers cloning your repository, mars-app-CI-CD-SEIP:

* Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/DimiChatzipavlis/mars-app-CI-CD-SEIP.git

* Navigate to the project directory:
cd mars-app-CI-CD-SEIP

* Install dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

* Create the database:
python create_database.py

* Run the application:
python app.py

* Access the API:
Visit http://127.0.0.1:5000/resources in a browser or API tool.


Note: Ensure Python 3.x is installed on your system.

## Mission 2

We make a CI/CD tool with Github Actions. We write the main.yml file, update the requirements.txt file with pytest and configure branch protection rules. For the code quality check we use pylint.

## Mission 3

We write the python automation tool with the setup.py file. Afterwards, we create an appropiate docker file. Lastly, we update the main.yml file.


## Special Thanks
The whole labatory's theory and assignment was carefully made by (**GitHub Username: `tasosger`**), (**GitHub Username: `Cristian-Scobioala`**).
